Date: 2025-10-XX
Author: Fida Ur Rahman

Objective

Complete the TryHackMe Networking Concept module to learn and understand basic networking ideas and common network commands used in cyber security practice.

Summary of what I did

I completed the full Networking Concept learning module on TryHackMe. The module covered important topics such as the difference between TCP and UDP, common port numbers (for example 22, 80, 443), how to perform basic network scans, and how to check HTTP responses. I read the lesson content carefully, completed the quizzes, and studied the example commands shown in the lab.

Practical commands I reviewed / practiced (in my local Kali environment)

While working through the module I learned how to use these common commands and what each command is for. I practiced writing and understanding them so I can run them on lab machines later:

nmap -sC -sV <TARGET_IP> — basic enumeration with default scripts and service version detection.

nmap -p- --min-rate 1000 <TARGET_IP> — full port scan to find all open ports.

ss -tulpn — view listening services and open ports on the local machine.

curl -I http://example.com — show HTTP response headers and basic web information.

ping <TARGET_IP> — check connectivity and response time.

Note: I reviewed how each command works, what the typical output shows, and how to interpret the results. I will run these commands on lab targets and save outputs/screenshots in future writeups.

Tools used

TryHackMe learning environment (web).

Kali Linux terminal (for command practice and concept review).

My notes file to record key points and next steps.

Key observations / learning points

Enumeration is the first and most important step; running nmap helps find which services to investigate further.

Knowing common ports helps focus web and service analysis quickly (for example, 80/443 for web, 22 for SSH).

curl and ss are fast tools to inspect web headers and local listening services without complicated setup.

Understanding the meaning of service versions helps find possible vulnerabilities or next steps.

Outcome

I completed the TryHackMe Networking Concept module and gained theoretical knowledge of basic networking.

I feel more confident with the list of commands above and know when to use each one in a lab environment.

Next steps

Practice running the above nmap, ss, and curl commands on a real lab machine and save the outputs to text files.

Learn and practice gobuster or ffuf for web directory enumeration.

Create a short practical writeup (with command outputs and screenshots) for the next room to add to my portfolio.

Attachments (in folder)

Networking_Concept_Completion.png (TryHackMe completion screenshot)

I will add command output files and screenshots in the next writeup after I run these commands on a lab target.
